We edit our first graphql query which allowed us to get data,
let's now add a query that allows us to save data. And for that,
why don't we start with our frontend which we used and make sure that we can actually sign up users
so that we can create users because that sounds like a mutation to me. For that,
first of all let me clean up my frontend. I'm not using socket.io error there anymore,
so in the feed.js file, at the top
remove that open socket import and then let's remove that logic from componentDidMount where I created
my socket connection and let's also remove add post and update post,
I'll do that differently later. After changing this,
let's go to app.js which is where we do sign up and we want to make sure that for the sign up
handler,
we now reach one of our mutations
and for that, we first of all need to create it.
Now how do we create a mutation?
I'll get rid of this resolver, we'll later add
query resolvers again,
for now I will get rid of my query here,
for now I only need a mutation and we add that in our schema by adding mutation here and then just as with
the query, we define a type which you could name mutation or root mutation, whatever you want
and there you now define the different mutations
you want to allow,
so here I'll just point at the root mutation. And in the root mutation,
I'll add one which I'll name
create user. You could name it sign up, you can name it whatever you want.
Now that mutation here will actually require some input, some arguments and that is a different syntax
which you now haven't seen before,
you can add parentheses after your query name
and this allows you to specify arguments that have to be given to that resolver that will run in the
end.
And here we could define that we need some user input data
and now we need to define the type of that data,
so how does this data look like?
Well first of all, we could of course accept the title of type string and then another argument which
is, not the title, the email of type string and then another argument which is the password of type string,
that would work too
or we bundle it in one object which we expect and for that object, we can create a new type and we don't
do this with the type keyword but there is a special keyword for data that is used as an input,
so for data that is used as an argument and that is the input keyword and you can now name this however
you want,
I'll name it user data and there,
how does my user data look like or my let's name it
user input data maybe,
how does that look like?
Well that will be an object which has an email field which is a string that is required,
I need that to be a string and I need that field to be there,
I also will get a name which is a string and a password.
Now this is the data type I'll use here for my argument, create user
and now the question just is what do I get back after a user was created?
Well there I want to get back a user object.
So for that I'll define a new type, not an input but a normal type which I'll name user.
There I'll have an _id field which will be an ID type,
it's a special type provided by graphql which simply signals that this is unique and well, treated as
an ID.
I'll then also have the username which is a string,
I'll have the email which is a string,
I have the password which is a string which I don't require let's say because I don't necessarily need
to return that, I'll have a status which is a string and I'll have my posts, now that will be an array
and for that I also need to define how my posts should look like, so let me define another type here,
the post type and that will have an ID,
that will then also have a title of course,
a post will also have a content, a post will then also have an image url
and of course you might notice some similarities to my mongoose models.
There I also defined how the data will look like and how it is connected,
we're essentially doing the same here because this will allow us to then retrieve that data efficiently.
So now I have my post image url, we also will have a creator which is a user object and we'll
have the createdAt field.
Now graphql does not know dates
so I'll use a string here and the same for updatedAt.
Remember we'll get these two fields because in the mongoose model for the post, we enabled timestamps.
Ok, so that is the post model. We needed that because in the user type, we now will have an array of posts
and this is how you tell graphql that you have an array of something, you enclose it in square
brackets and that user data is now what I want to return here when I create a user. That is the schema
defined,
let's now work on the resolver for that.